---
title: 2027 Kia EV3
url: https://www.motortrend.com/cars/kia/ev3/2027
hostname: motortrend.com
description: <p>Interested in the 2027 Kia EV3 but not sure where to start? Learn about it in the MotorTrend Buyer's Guide right here.</p>
sitename: MotorTrend
date: 2026-02-24
---
## 2027 Kia EV3 Expert Review

Reviewed by [Alex Leanse](https://www.motortrend.com/staff/alex-leanse)

Drivers eager for a small and relatively affordable new electric vehicle may soon have another option to anticipate: the 2027 Kia EV3. Following the [EV6 compact crossover](https://www.motortrend.com/cars/kia/ev6) and [EV9 three-row SUV](https://www.motortrend.com/cars/kia/ev9), the EV3 arrives as the automaker's smallest and least expensive battery-powered model.

The EV3 shares a platform and tech features with its larger counterparts, but its subcompact SUV size and radical design give it unique appeal. Competitors in the burgeoning small inexpensive EV segment include the Chevrolet Equinox EV and Nissan Leaf.

### What's New

The EV3 is an entirely new electric model in Kia's SUV lineup. The small crossover wears design language introduced on the EV9 and should be more powerful and quicker charging than the brand's other attempt at a budget-oriented compact electric SUV, the Niro EV. It's also a more conventional looking SUV alternative to the sporty, hatchback-esque EV6.

### What We Think

In our [First Drive review](https://www.motortrend.com/reviews/2026-kia-ev3-first-drive-review), we praised the EV3's reasonably quick acceleration and confident handling. Inside mid-level and top-trim models, the cabin looks smart with textured soft-touch plastics, ambient lighting, and premium cloth accents on the dashboard and door panels.

Even base models should come with desirable features including a big screen and soft-touch materials. We just worry all these amenities will make it difficult for Kia to sell the EV3 at a competitive price, especially its $35,000 target base price.

If Kia can manage a way to squeeze the EV3 into its North American assembly operations, which would help it qualify for federal tax credits, the EV3 could make for a solid addition to the automaker's EV lineup in the U.S.

### Kia EV3 Motors, Range, and Charging

As it’s based on the Hyundai Motor Group’s E-GMP electric vehicle platform, the EV3 will share battery and charging technologies with vehicles including the Hyundai Ioniq 5 and Genesis GV60, not to mention the Kia EV6 and EV9.

As standard, the EV3 will have a single-motor FWD powertrain making 201 hp and 209 lb-ft of torque. A more powerful dual-motor AWD system will likely become available later. Kia will offer the EV3 with batteries as large as 81.4 kWh, likely the same unit found in the latest Ioniq 5. However, smaller and less expensive batteries are also likely be offered. We hope the EV3 will follow in the footsteps of some other Kia EVs and feature quick recharging rates with a DC fast charger.

### Safety Features

Like every new electric Kia, the EV3 will include or offer a wide range of driver assist and active safety features. Front and rear automatic emergency braking, blind-spot monitoring, lane-keep assist, and adaptive cruise control are on the list. Kia’s Remote Smart Parking Assist will be optional.

### Technology

The new EV3 is much smaller than the Kia EV9, but has all the tech features found in its larger three-row SUV counterpart. Three digital displays are positioned on the dashboard: a 12.3-inch digital gauge cluster, 12.3-inch infotainment touchscreen, and a 5.0-inch multifunction control panel.

Wireless Apple CarPlay and Android Auto are standard, and the built-in navigation system can plan driving routes based on battery range and charger locations. An AI-based digital assistant aims for improved ease of use. Over-the-air update capability can add new functionality, and Kia will sell different software features and digital design themes. Several USB ports and a wireless charging pad keep devices juiced up. Premium tech features will include a head-up display and upgraded audio system.

### EV3's Awesome Interior

In addition to big-screen tech, the EV3’s cabin packs a lot of cool, clever features and details. The center console integrates a slide-out tray table, ideal for holding a laptop or lunchbox while plugged in at a charger.

Likewise, the front seats offer a “Relaxation Mode” to sprawl out while charging. Below the table, a sizable bin provides space for a purse or beverages. Decorative fabrics, a slightly squared-off steering wheel, and multi-color ambient lighting add to the modern impression.

Sustainable materials are used throughout, such as a dashboard derived from waste sugarcane, and recycled plastic carpeting. [The EV3 concept](https://www.motortrend.com/news/kia-ev5-ev4-ev3-first-look-review) features a cool folding table in the center console made from a fungus root material, part of a sustainable theme for Kia's new electric SUV. The table may not make it to production, but other leather-free interior materials and textiles likely will.

### Will There Be an Off-Road EV3?

We're hoping Kia will eventually introduce a EV3 X-Line or X-Pro. We know from other model lines Kia's not afraid to add a smidge of ground clearance, throw on some all-terrain tires and roof rails, and add a drive mode or two. This one seems like a no-brainer—it could be a fun rival to the Rivian R3.

### Kia EV3 GT-Line

As it does with the EV6 and EV9, Kia will offer the EV3 in GT-Line specification. This trim level looks sportier than the standard EV3, with a more aggressive front end, larger wheels, and gloss black exterior details.

However, the EV3 GT-Line likely won’t have any meaningful performance upgrades. That doesn’t mean Kia won’t cook up a hotter EV3—it already builds the EV6 GT and is reportedly working on an EV9 GT.

### EV3 Price and Availability

Kia says it’s aiming for a starting price of about $35,000, which could rise closer to $50,000 for high-end models. If and when the EV3 makes its way to the U.S., expect an on-sale date no earlier than the second half of 2026.

### Other Compact Electric SUVs:

● Rivian R3

● Chevrolet Equinox EV