---
title: 2027 Mercedes-Benz GLS-Class
url: https://www.motortrend.com/cars/mercedes-benz/gls-class/2027
hostname: motortrend.com
description: <p>The range-topping model in the Mecedes-Benz SUV lineup gets a major upgrade for the 2027 model year with revised cosmetics, updated engines, and new tech.</p>
sitename: MotorTrend
date: 2021-07-05
---
## 2027 Mercedes-Benz GLS-Class Expert Review

Reviewed by [Billy Rehbock](https://www.motortrend.com/staff/billy-rehbock)

As the popularity of SUVs have grown, so too has the importance of having an opulent three-row hauler at the top-end of a luxury marque’s lineup. That’s the role the heavily updated 2027 Mercedes-Benz GLS-Class fills, now offering refreshed styling, revised powertrains, and more tech. The 2027 Mercedes-Benz GLS-Class competes with other [ full-size luxury SUVs](https://www.motortrend.com/rankings/suvs/luxury/3-row-full-size) including the BMW X7, Cadillac Escalade, and Lincoln Navigator.

## What’s New

**Basics **

- Updated powertrains with standard mild hybrid assistance
- Ten cameras, up to five radar sensors, and 12 ultrasonic sensors
- MB.OS operating system

**Exterior **

- Revised front fascia with fresh headlights
- Redesigned taillights with Mercedes-Benz star design
- Available illuminated Mercedes-Benz star on the hood
- Headlights are 50-percent more efficient and cast a 40-percent larger light field

**Interior **

- Standard MBUX Superscreen with three 12.3-inch displays
- Twin 11.6-inch displays for the second row available
- MBUX Virtual Assistant AI voice commands with animated avatars
- Fresh interior design accents and materials
- Rocker switch and roller controls for steering wheel

## What We Think

The Mercedes-Benz GLS-Class is something of an ultra-luxurious Swiss … erm *German* army knife. It’s equipped with smooth, powerful engines that have been retooled as part of the latest redesign, and plush suspension. Despite its limo-like intentions, the GLS-Class handles well and manages weight like a much smaller SUV. [ The cabin is rich](https://www.motortrend.com/news/2020-mercedes-benz-gls-pros-and-cons-review) in the conventional sense, with high-end materials, while also embracing new tech like big screens and AI assistance.

In the past, we’ve criticized the GLS-Class for its transmission’s [ occasionally jerky downshifts](https://www.motortrend.com/reviews/2020-mercedes-benz-gls580-vs-bmw-x7-xdrive-40i-comparison-test-review), but we hope the updates for the new model year address this. Fuel economy has been an issue before, but if Mercedes-Benz is to be believed, its powertrains are now better on gas.

These latest updates to the GLS-Class come late in the current-generation SUV’s life cycle. Mercedes-Benz first introduced its existing flagship for 2020 and last refreshed it for 2024. The most recent upgrade appears to be a bid to keep the GLS-Class competitive as Mercedes-Benz extends its range of existing gasoline models and reckons with the reality that demand for EV is less than expected. Are the changes enough to breathe new energy into the GLS-Class model range? We’ll find out when we get behind the wheel.

## Top-Ranked Competitors:

__Cadillac Escalade____Jeep Grand Wagoneer____Lincoln Navigator____Infiniti QX80__

## Performance

The 2027 Mercedes-Benz GLS-Class enters the new model year with two variants: the GLS450 4Matic and the GLS580 4Matic. Both are standard with all-wheel drive and a nine-speed automatic transmission. The entry-level GLS450 4Matic is equipped with a 3.0-liter turbocharged straight-six engine developing 375 hp and 413 lb-ft of torque.

Output is the same, but torque has risen by 44 lb-ft since the 2026 model year due to a strengthened auxiliary compressor, revised cylinder head intake and exhaust ports, and a reworked intake camshaft. The GLS450 also has mild hybrid assistance with the help of an integrated starter generator developing 23 hp and 151 lb-ft of torque. Mercedes-Benz says the 2027 GLS450 accelerates from 0–60 mph in 5.6 seconds.

As the upgrade powertrain, a 4.0-liter twin-turbocharged V-8 engine is offered for the 2027 Mercedes-Benz GLS580 4Matic. It now uses a flat-plane crankshaft instead of a cross-plane design and gets other upgrades like a revised fuel injection system, exhaust gas aftertreatment, intake and exhaust ports for the cylinder heads, and intake camshaft. Like the GLS450, the 580 has mild hybrid assistance. Output has risen from 510 hp and 538 lb-ft of torque to 530 hp and 553 lb-ft of torque. The 2027 GLS580 launches from 0–60 mph in 4.6 seconds according to Mercedes-Benz.

For 2026, Mercedes-Benz offered the GLS-Class in ultra-luxurious Maybach trim with a V-8 engine tuned to 550 hp and 538 lb-ft of torque. There was also an AMG variant developing 603 hp and 627 lb-ft of torque. If Mercedes resurrects these models, expect them to get more power and a mild hybrid treatment, just like the Benz variants of the GLS.

## Safety and Driver-Assist Features

As the range-topping model in the Mercedes-Benz SUV lineup, the 2027 GLS-Class comes loaded with safety tech. Even more equipment is optional, including semi-autonomous driving functionality and augmented reality features. The GLS-Class is decked-out with 10 cameras, up to five radar sensors, and 12 ultrasonic sensors.

### Standard Features

Mercedes-Benz equips the 2027 GLS-Class with the following features: adaptive cruise control, MB.Drive Parking Assist with automated parking capability, and a 360-degree camera system. Expect it to carry over with automatic emergency braking, blind-spot monitoring, automatic high-beams, traffic sign monitoring, rain-sensing wipers, driver-focus monitoring, and evasive steering.

### Available Features

As is typical in the upper echelons of the luxury SUV market, the most desirable driver assistance features are optional. MBDrive Assist Pro is available, granting semi-autonomous driving functionality. Mercedes-Benz also offers the GLS-Class with augmented reality navigation and the ability to automatically follow a path it’s already driven while in reverse gear.

## Cargo Space and Interior Room

Though final measurements have yet to be announced, expect interior volume to be generous, especially for passengers in the first and second row. Mercedes has verified a maximum of 84.8 cubic feet of cargo area with the second row folded flat and claims the third row can accommodate passengers that are up to 6’4” tall.

## Technology

### Infotainment

Every 2027 Mercedes-Benz GLS-Class comes standard with the MBUX Superscreen, which houses three 12.3-inch displays under a single piece of glass. Navigation powered by Google Maps is integrated into the infotainment system. The voice-controlled MBUX Virtual Assistant, an AI feature that remains available on the central display at all times, supplies conversational assistance. Every GLS-Class uses a water-cooled high-performance processor running MB.OS, enabling over-the-air updates.

### Available Upgrades

Mercedes-Benz offers the 2027 GLS-Class with high-tech upgrades like dual-11.6-inch displays for the second row, a three-dimensional driver display, and a digital key that allows you to automatically lock or unlock the vehicle upon approach or departure.

## Value

### Standard Features

The entry-level 2027 Mercedes-Benz GLS450 4Matic is standard with a 3.0-liter turbocharged inline-six engine, all-wheel drive, and a nine-speed automatic transmission. It rides on the automaker’s Airmatic air suspension with adaptive damping. Inside the cabin, there’s the MBUX Superscreen and a panoramic sunroof lets extra light into the passenger space.